---
title: My 2019 Reading
date: 2020-01-09
tags: personal
excerpt: Here are the 19 books I read last year, along with brief reviews of some of my favorites.
---

I figured I'd share my reading list from last year. I think I'll start posting
this annually. One of my goals was to read from a more diverse group of authors.
I read 19 books total. Eight were written by women (six different authors) and
two were by people of color. I still have work to do to introduce more diversity
into my reading, but this was an improvement for me over 2018. Here are the
books:

- _Mother Night_ by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
- _Hunger_ by Knut Hamsun
- _Tenth of December_ by George Saunders
- _My Struggle: Book 1_ by Karl Ove Knausgård
- _Bringing up Bébé_ by Pamela Druckerman
- _We Should All be Feminists_ by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
- _The Neverending Story_ by Michael Ende
- _Man’s Search for Meaning_ by Viktor Frankl
- _Stoner_ by John Williams
- _Harry Potter and the Order of Phoenix (#5)_ by J.K. Rowling
- _Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince (#6)_ by J.K. Rowling
- _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (#7)_ by J.K. Rowling
- _The Shadow of What Was Lost_ by James Islington
- _An Echo of Things to Come_ by James Islington
- _Their Eyes Were Watching God_ by Zora Neale Hurston
- _The Bell Jar_ by Sylvia Plath
- _The Lathe of Heaven_ by Ursula K. Le Guin
- _The Emigrants_ by Vilhelm Moberg
- _Unto a Good Land_ by Vilhelm Moberg

Some of my favorites were:

**The Lathe of Heaven**: This is a thought-provoking, philosophical science
fiction where the main character's dreams alter reality. The book takes a look
at our desire to control destiny, with two characters representing two
contrasting philosophies: one trying to take advantage of the other character's
dreams in order to mold the future, and the other believing that the power to
shape reality shouldn't be meddled with. The characters are opposites in a lot
of ways, and I found the interplay between them to be fascinating. I can't wait
to read more stories by Ursula K. Le Guin.

**The Bell Jar**: Sylvia Plath's only novel. It documents the main character's
descent into mental illness, apparently in a way that mirrors Plath's own
struggles with depression and bipolar disorder. Plath's writing is witty,
funny, vulnerable, and smart. This made me wish she had written more than just
this novel. I'll probably pick up some of her poetry soon.

**Their Eyes Were Watching God**: I found this book fascinating and
perspective-widening. It follows Janie Crawford as she moves between three
different marriages and the different ways of living that come with each. It
explores gender roles, societal expectations, and also provides an interesting
perspective of what it was like to be black in the South in the early 20th
century.

**Harry Potter**: I wasn't allowed to read these as a child because I grew up
in a very conservative family in a time period where magic was considered evil
👹. Finally catching up, haha. I'm still not sure if I'm a Gryffindor or
Ravenclaw. I'll never forgive Slytherins for not defending Hogwarts when
Voldemort attacked and might judge you if you tell me you're a Slytherin.

**The Shadow of What was Lost**: This and the sequel, _An Echo of Things to
Come_, were some fun fantasy novels that came recommended by a coworker, and I'm
glad I read them. The story follows teenagers who are learning to use magic in
order to fight off a growing danger at the border of their land. The writing
reminds me a bit of Brandon Sanderson's _Mistborn_ series, with maybe a slightly
older target audience. These were fun reads and were hard to put down. I even
found myself not caring too much about the blatantly ripped off storylines, like
a northern border wall with invaders starting to break through (sound familiar?)
or the hooded, mysterious magic-tracking bloodhound people that are basically
the Nazgûl. The third book came out last month, and I'll probably read it this
year.

**The Neverending Story**: Young adult books are my guilty pleasure. I had
never read this one and loved the story. My brother bought me the hardcover
with red and green lettering, so of course I felt a little like I myself was
Bastian Balthazar Bux reading the _real_ Neverending Story.

**The Emigrants**: I love history and historical fictions, and this book series
has a bit of a personal connection for me. It tells the story of a family
emigrating from Sweden to America in the mid 19th century. My family history
includes four sets of ancestors who emigrated from Sweden and Norway in the mid
to late 19th century, and I enjoyed gaining a sense of understanding of what
they were leaving when they chose to move their families to a new country. What
prompted me to pick up this book up was discovering Swedish language letters to
my great-great grandfather when my family was going through my grandmother's
things. I found someone to translate them, and she recommended I read this.
Next up will be to watch [the
movie](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0067919/?ref_=nv_sr_srsg_0)!

**Tenth of December**: This was a collection of short stories that I decided to
read after a friend of mine shared one of the stories,
[Sticks](http://www.unm.edu/~gmartin/535/Sticks.htm). I was amazed at how much
emotion was captured in a two paragraph story. The rest of the stories in the
book (which were all longer) didn't disappoint, either. They are mostly social
commentary and told from the perspective of a character in the story --
colloquialisms and grammar errors and all. The story I found most
thought-provoking was _The Semplica Girl Diaries_, which was set in a
middle-class suburb in an alternate reality where displaying live, captive
slave women on people's lawns is a sign of status. It provoked thoughts about
our own status symbols and the true cost of the things we where and present. In
some ways, is our current society the same?

I enjoyed almost all of the books I read last year, but that's all I have the
time to review right now. Feel free to [connect with me on
Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/25084336-stephen) if you'd like
to keep in touch about books or share recommendations. Thanks for reading!
